As we saw in the previous
video, function calls have a
certain amount of overhead.
We need to create an activation
record, push it on the stack,
deal with parameters, pop off the
activation record when the function
terminates and deal with the
return addresses and return values.
Although all of this can
happen very quickly and
efficiently, it still happens.
Sometimes we have a very simple
function and the function call
overhead might be greater than the
time spent executing the function.
In cases such as these, we
can suggest to the compiler
that it generate inline code.
Inline code is basically inline
assembly code that avoids
the function call overhead.
Inline code is generally faster.
But if you inline a function many
times, then you're duplicating
function code in many places and
it could lead to larger binaries.
That said, compilers are
so sophisticated now that
they'll likely inline code
even without your suggestion.
Let's see what an inline
function looks like.
Here you can see the syntax
for an inline function.
We simply precede the function
return type with the keyword inline.
Inline functions are usually declared
in header or .h files since the
definition must be available to
every source file that uses it.
As mentioned earlier, compilers
are so good now that most will
make short functions like this
inline anyway even if you don't
provide the inline keyword.
Don't worry too much about asking
the compiler to inline your
functions, but now you know what
inline functions are in case you
see them in c++ code out there.